NEXT-12703 - add fetching data from entity selection custom field (#148)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/plugins/framework/custom-field/fetching-data-from-entity-selection.md

# Fetching data from "entity selection" custom field

## Overview

> If you set up a custom field with an entity selection in administration, you may need a data resolver to resolve the entity somewhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you set up a custom field with an entity selection in the administration, you may need a data resolver to resolve the ID to an entity object.
```

## Prerequisites

> This guide will  not explain how create custom field in general, so head over to
> the official guide about [Custom field](./add-custom-field.md) to learn this first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will not explain how create custom field in general, so head over to
the official guide about [custom fields](./add-custom-field.md) to learn this first.
```

## Fetching data

In this example we assume that we already set up a custom field called `custom_linked_product`, which is assigned to the products entity.
The type of the custom field `custom_linked_product` is also a product.

If you now update a product in the administration and select a value for `custom_linked_product` only the `id` of the selected product entity gets store in the custom field.

> To resolve this `id` and getting access to the product we linked here, we can create a `ProductSubscriber` which listens to the `ProductEvents::PRODUCT_LOADED_EVENT`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve the `id` and getting access to the product we have linked here, we can create a `ProductSubscriber` which listens to the `ProductEvents::PRODUCT_LOADED_EVENT`.
```

> After the events gets trigger when loading the main product, we can easily resolve the id in the custom field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The event will be triggered, when the associated main product will be loaded. So we can easily resolve the id in the custom field.
```

Lets create a `ProductSubscriber` first which will listen to the `ProductEvents::PRODUCT_LOADED_EVENT`.

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Subscriber/ProductSubscriber.php" %}
```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1);

namespace Swag\BasicExample\Subscriber;

use Shopware\Core\Framework\DataAbstractionLayer\Event\EntityLoadedEvent;
use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;
use Shopware\Core\Content\Product\ProductEvents;

class ProductSubscriber implements EventSubscriberInterface
{
    public static function getSubscribedEvents(): array
    {
        return [
            ProductEvents::PRODUCT_LOADED_EVENT => 'onProductLoaded'
        ];
    }

    public function onProductLoaded(EntityLoadedEvent $event): void
    {
    }
}
```
{% endcode %}

> To this subscriber to work we need to update the `service.xml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this subscriber to work we need to register it in the service container via the `service.xml` file:
```

           xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

    <services>
        <service id="Swag\BasicExample\Subscriber\ProductSubscriber">
            <tag name="kernel.event_subscriber"/>
        </service>
    </services>
</container>
```
{% endcode %}

Now our `ProductSubscriber` should be called every time a product is loaded, so we can resolve the custom field `custom_linked_product`.

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Subscriber/ProductSubscriber.php" %}
```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1);

namespace Swag\BasicExample\Subscriber;

use Shopware\Core\Framework\DataAbstractionLayer\Event\EntityLoadedEvent;
use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;
use Shopware\Core\Content\Product\ProductEvents;

class ProductSubscriber implements EventSubscriberInterface
{
    public static function getSubscribedEvents(): array
    {
        return [
            ProductEvents::PRODUCT_LOADED_EVENT => 'onProductLoaded'
        ];
    }

    public function onProductLoaded(EntityLoadedEvent $event): void
    {
        /** @var ProductEntity $productEntity */

>         foreach ($event->getEntities() as $productEntity) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // loop through all loaded products
        foreach ($event->getEntities() as $productEntity) {
```

            $customFields = $productEntity->getCustomFields();

>             foreach($customFields as $name => $value) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            // loop through each product's custom fields
            foreach($customFields as $name => $value) {
```

    <services>
        <service id="Swag\BasicExample\Subscriber\ProductSubscriber">
            <argument type="service" id="product.repository"/>
            <tag name="kernel.event_subscriber"/>
        </service>
    </services>
</container>
```
{% endcode %}

Now we can use the product repository in our subscriber.

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Subscriber/ProductSubscriber.php" %}
```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1);

namespace Swag\BasicExample\Subscriber;

use Shopware\Core\Content\Product\ProductEntity;
use Shopware\Core\Framework\DataAbstractionLayer\EntityRepositoryInterface;
use Shopware\Core\Framework\DataAbstractionLayer\Event\EntityLoadedEvent;
use Shopware\Core\Framework\DataAbstractionLayer\Search\Criteria;
use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;
use Shopware\Core\Content\Product\ProductEvents;

class ProductSubscriber implements EventSubscriberInterface
{
    /**
     * @var EntityRepositoryInterface
     */
    private $productRepository;

    public function __construct(
        EntityRepositoryInterface $productRepository
    ) {
        $this->productRepository = $productRepository;
    }

   //...
}
```
{% endcode %}

> As you can see, the product repository was injected and is now available to us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, the product repository was injected and is now available to the `ProductRepository`.
```

> The last step is to resolve the `custom_lined_product` value inside the `onProductLoaded` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last step is to resolve the `custom_linked_product` value inside the `onProductLoaded` method.
```

> Here is now the final subscriber implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's have a look at the final implementation of the subscriber.
```

use Shopware\Core\Framework\DataAbstractionLayer\Event\EntityLoadedEvent;
use Shopware\Core\Framework\DataAbstractionLayer\Search\Criteria;
use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;
use Shopware\Core\Content\Product\ProductEvents;

class ProductSubscriber implements EventSubscriberInterface
{
    /**
     * @var EntityRepositoryInterface
     */
    private $productRepository;

    public function __construct(
        EntityRepositoryInterface $productRepository
    ) {
        $this->productRepository = $productRepository;
    }

    public static function getSubscribedEvents(): array
    {
        return [
            ProductEvents::PRODUCT_LOADED_EVENT => 'onProductLoaded'
        ];
    }

    public function onProductLoaded(EntityLoadedEvent $event): void
    {
        /** @var ProductEntity $productEntity */
        foreach ($event->getEntities() as $productEntity) {
            $customFields = $productEntity->getCustomFields();

            foreach($customFields as $name => $value) {
                if ($name !== 'custom_demo_test' || emtpy($value)) {
                    return;
                }

                $context = $event->getContext();

>                 /** @var ProductEntity $productEntity */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                // search the entity via the repository here
                /** @var ProductEntity $productEntity */
```

                $product = $this->productRepository
                    ->search(new Criteria([$value]), $context)->first();

>                 

Reviewer: please implement a check, if the $product is found here actually.
We can not guarantee that behind the ID in the custom field, an actual entity can be fetched (maybe it was deleted in the meantime, etc)

Author: @lernhart thx for point that out.  Added a ´if` condition to check the presents of a product. Please check again.

>                 $customFields[$name] = $product;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                // replace the custom field's value with the actual entity
                $customFields[$name] = $product;
```

            }

            $productEntity->setCustomFields($customFields);
        }
    }
}
```
{% endcode %}

## Next steps

> ...

Reviewer: Should this be updated ?

Author: removed next steps - couldn't find any useful things to mention here

# Fetching data from "entity selection" custom field

## Overview

If you set up a custom field with an entity selection in the administration, you may need a data resolver to resolve the ID to an entity object.

## Prerequisites

> This guide will not explain how create custom field in general, so head over to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide will not explain how to create custom field in general, so head over to
```

     */
    private $productRepository;

    public function __construct(
        EntityRepositoryInterface $productRepository
    ) {
        $this->productRepository = $productRepository;
    }

    public static function getSubscribedEvents(): array
    {
        return [
            ProductEvents::PRODUCT_LOADED_EVENT => 'onProductLoaded'
        ];
    }

    public function onProductLoaded(EntityLoadedEvent $event): void
    {
        // loop through all loaded products
        /** @var ProductEntity $productEntity */
        foreach ($event->getEntities() as $productEntity) {
            $customFields = $productEntity->getCustomFields();

            // loop through each product's custom fields
            foreach($customFields as $name => $value) {
                if ($name !== 'custom_demo_test' || emtpy($value)) {
                    return;
                }

                $context = $event->getContext();

                // search the entity via the repository here
                /** @var ProductEntity $productEntity */
                $product = $this->productRepository
                    ->search(new Criteria([$value]), $context)->first();
                

>                 if(!emtpy($product)) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                if(
                !emtpy($product)) {
```
